Enterprise AI Analytics Portal
Schema Intelligence — Revised Architecture
Cloud Deployment Edition
1. What Changed and Why
The original architecture was sound in its pipeline logic. The conversation that produced this document questioned two implementation choices — not the pipeline itself — and arrived at a leaner stack better suited to cloud deployment.

Two questions were raised:
Do we need Neo4j alongside ChromaDB?
Is pruning necessary given realistic schema sizes?

The answers led to a simpler architecture that solves the same problems with less infrastructure.

2. The Pipeline Is Unchanged
Nothing in the core query pipeline was removed. Every step from the original document still exists:



3. What Actually Changed
3.1 ChromaDB → pgvector on Supabase
The original design used ChromaDB as a separate vector store. In cloud deployments this creates an operational problem: ChromaDB needs either a persistent volume (awkward in most cloud environments) or a managed service (another bill, another connection to secure).

pgvector is a PostgreSQL extension that adds vector similarity search natively. Supabase supports it out of the box. This means the same database already running your application handles vector embeddings — no separate service required.


3.2 In-Memory Dict → Supabase Table + Runtime Cache
The original design built the FK relationship graph in memory at startup as a Python dictionary. This works perfectly on a single machine. In the cloud it has one real problem: if you run multiple instances for load balancing, each builds its own graph independently. On every restart, every instance repeats the work.

The fix is a simple schema_relationships table in Supabase:

CREATE TABLE schema_relationships (
    from_table TEXT,
    to_table   TEXT,
    from_col   TEXT,
    to_col     TEXT
);

On startup, sync_schema.py writes FK relationships to this table. At runtime each instance loads the table once into a Python dict for fast traversal. The dict is still used for actual graph walking — it's just seeded from a persistent source rather than rebuilt from scratch every time.


3.3 Neo4j — Decided Against
Neo4j was proposed as a replacement for the in-memory FK graph. After evaluating it against the actual requirements, the conclusion was that it adds operational complexity without meaningful benefit at this scale:

FK relationships for a typical business schema fit in a table with a few hundred rows
1-2 hop traversal on this data is microseconds in Python — no graph DB needed
Cloud-hosted Neo4j (Aura) is another managed service to pay for and maintain
The use case only justifies Neo4j when doing complex multi-hop pathfinding across thousands of nodes

Neo4j remains the right answer if the schema grows to 500+ highly interconnected tables, or if schema introspection (impact analysis, path queries, history) becomes a product requirement.

3.4 Pruning — Deferred, Not Dropped
The pruning section raised the question of whether over-fetching is a real problem. The honest assessment:

Top-K retrieval returns 8-10 tables
1-hop FK expansion typically adds 3-6 more tables (many already in top-K)
Realistic expanded set: 12-16 tables at 200-400 tokens each = ~4,000-6,000 tokens
This is well within any modern LLM context window and causes no performance issues

Layer 1 pruning (similarity threshold 0.3) is still the recommended starting point because it is fast and free. Layers 2 and 3 should only be added when real over-fetching errors are observed and measured.

4. The Revised Architecture
4.1 Full Stack



4.2 How the Pipeline Runs
The runtime flow is identical to the original document. The only difference is where data is stored between requests:

User query arrives → embedded into a vector
pgvector similarity search returns top-K relevant tables
Python dict (loaded from Supabase at startup) expands the set via 1-hop FK traversal
Layer 1 pruning drops obviously irrelevant additions (optional)
SQL Agent generates query on the resolved table set
SQLAlchemy executes against Supabase and returns results

4.3 Auto-Sync on Startup
The sync process from Section 5 of the original document is unchanged in logic. The implementation now writes to two Supabase destinations instead of one:

Table description embedding → pgvector (was ChromaDB)
FK relationships → schema_relationships table (was in-memory dict only)

Everything else — LLM-generated descriptions, SQLAlchemy inspection, MD5 change detection — remains exactly as designed.

5. What This Solves for Cloud


6. When to Revisit These Decisions
The revised architecture is the right starting point. These are the conditions under which each deferred component becomes justified:


